readme.md, before:

Yii 2.0 Public Preview
======================

Thank you for choosing Yii - a high-performance component-based PHP framework.

If you are looking for a production-ready PHP framework, please use
[Yii v1.1](https://github.com/yiisoft/yii).

Yii 2.0 is still under heavy development. We may make significant changes
without prior notices. **Yii 2.0 is not ready for production use yet.**


DIRECTORY STRUCTURE
-------------------

      apps/                ready-to-use Web apps built on Yii 2
          bootstrap/       a simple app supporting user login and contact page
      build/               internally used build tools
      docs/                documentation
      framework/           framework source files
      tests/               tests of the core framework code


REQUIREMENTS
------------

The minimum requirement by Yii is that your Web server supports PHP 5.3.?.


HOW TO PARTICIPATE
------------------

You are welcome to participate in Yii 2 development in the following ways:

* [Report issues](https://github.com/yiisoft/yii2/issues)
* [Give us feedback or start a design discussion](http://www.yiiframework.com/forum/index.php/forum/42-design-discussions-for-yii-20/)
* Fix issues, develop features, write/polish documentation
    - Before you start, please adopt an existing issue (labelled with "ready for adoption") or start a new one to avoid duplicated efforts.
    - Please submit a merge request after you finish development.

Commit message:

Finished the initial draft of upgrading instructions

readme.md, after:

Yii 2.0 Public Preview
======================

Thank you for choosing Yii - a high-performance component-based PHP framework.

If you are looking for a production-ready PHP framework, please use
[Yii v1.1](https://github.com/yiisoft/yii).

Yii 2.0 is still under heavy development. We may make significant changes
without prior notices. **Yii 2.0 is not ready for production use yet.**


DIRECTORY STRUCTURE
-------------------

      apps/                ready-to-use Web apps built on Yii 2
          bootstrap/       a simple app supporting user login and contact page
      build/               internally used build tools
      docs/                documentation
      framework/           framework source files
      tests/               tests of the core framework code


REQUIREMENTS
------------

The minimum requirement by Yii is that your Web server supports PHP 5.3.?.


DOCUMENTATION
-------------

For 1.1 users, you may refer to [Upgrading from Yii 1.1](docs/guide/upgrade-from-v1.md)
to have a general idea of what has changed in 2.0.

We are writing more documentation to get you started and learn more in depth.


HOW TO PARTICIPATE
------------------

**Your participation to Yii 2 development is very welcome!**

You may participate in the following ways:

* [Report issues](https://github.com/yiisoft/yii2/issues)
* [Give us feedback or start a design discussion](http://www.yiiframework.com/forum/index.php/forum/42-design-discussions-for-yii-20/)
* Fix issues, develop features, write/polish documentation
    - Before you start, please adopt an existing issue (labelled with "ready for adoption") or start a new one to avoid duplicated efforts.
    - Please submit a merge request after you finish development.
